Updates to Key Compromise Analysis (#43)
secure-systems-lab/peps: pep-0458.txt

+=================+===================+================+================================+
| targets         | NO                | NO             | NO                             |
| **OR**          | timestamp and     | need timestamp | need timestamp and snapshot    |
| bins            | snapshot need to  | and snapshot   |                                |
|                 | cooperate         |                |                                |
+-----------------+-------------------+----------------+--------------------------------+
| timestamp       | YES               | YES            | YES                            |
| **AND**         | limited by        | limited by     | limited by earliest root,      |
| snapshot        | earliest root,    | earliest root, | targets, or bins metadata      |
| **AND**         | targets, or bins  | targets, or    | expiry time                    |
| bin-n           | expiry time       | bins metadata  |                                |
|                 |                   | expiry time    |                                |
+-----------------+-------------------+----------------+--------------------------------+

> | root            | YES               | YES            | YES                            |

Reviewer: Just a suggestions: Would collapsing the columns make the table easier to read?

```
+-----------------+-------------------+----------------+--------------------------------+
| Role Compromise | Malicious Updates | Freeze Attack  | Metadata Inconsistency Attacks |
+=================+===================+================+================================+
| targets         | NO                                                                  |
| **OR**          | timestamp and snapshot need to cooperate for any of the attacks     |
| bins            |                                                                     |
+-----------------+-------------------+----------------+--------------------------------+
| timestamp       | YES                                                                 |
| **AND**         | but all of the attacks are limited by earliest root, targets or     |
| snapshot        | bins metadata expiry time                                           |
| **AND**         |                                                                     |
| bin-n           |                                                                     |
+-----------------+-------------------+----------------+--------------------------------+
| root            | YES                                                                 |
+-----------------+-------------------+----------------+--------------------------------+
```

If not, I advise to use the same wording in every box, if the condition is the same, i.e.:
- "[roles] need to cooperate" vs. "need [roles]" (in row 1)
- "[... roles] expiry time" vs. "[... roles] metadata expiry"  (in row 2)

means they will all be compromised. Therefore the table considers these
roles together. A version of this table that considers these roles separately
is included in PEP 480 [26]_.

+-----------------+-------------------+----------------+--------------------------------+
| Role Compromise | Malicious Updates | Freeze Attack  | Metadata Inconsistency Attacks |
+=================+===================+================+================================+
| targets         | NO                                                                  |
| **OR**          | timestamp and snapshot need to cooperate                            |
| bins            |                                                                     |
+-----------------+-------------------+----------------+--------------------------------+
| timestamp       | YES                                                                 |
| **AND**         | limited by earliest root, targets, or bins metadata expiry time     |
| snapshot        |                                                                     |
| **AND**         |                                                                     |

> | bin-n           |                                                                     |

Reviewer 2: Should we stress that adding targets **OR*** bins has the same outcome somehow?

Author: I could add another row for this, but it would need to have parenthesis to be clear which I think is more likely to confuse the reader, ex: (targets OR bins) AND timestamp AND snapshot AND bin-n

__ https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2013-September/022755.html

Note that compromising *targets* or *bins*
does not immediately allow an attacker to serve malicious
updates.  The attacker must also compromise the *timestamp* and *snapshot*
roles, which are both online and therefore more likely to be compromised.
This means that, in order to launch any attack, one must not only be able to
act as a man-in-the-middle, but also compromise the *timestamp* key (or
compromise the *root* keys and sign a new *timestamp* key).  To launch any
attack other than a freeze attack, one must also compromise the *snapshot* key.
In practice, this PEP recommends storing the *snapshot*, *timestamp*, and 
*bin-n* keys together, or even using the same key for all of these roles.
Because of this, the attacker only needs to compromise this single server to

> perform any of the attacks listed above. However, the offline *root* key will

Reviewer: We should also not undersell. Let's stress that the compromise must be on the PyPI signing infrastructure and not on a CDN or mirror. Something along the lines of....

```suggestion
perform any of the attacks listed above. Note that clients are still protected
against compromises of non-signing infrastructure such as CDNs or mirrors.
Moreover, the offline *root* key will
```

allow the repository to recover from an attack by revoking the online key(s).

Finally, a compromise of the PyPI infrastructure MAY introduce malicious

> updates to *bin-n* projects because the keys for these roles are online.  The

Reviewer: It feels like the leading two sentences in this paragraph pretty much repeat what has been said at the end of the previous paragraph. I suggest to remove them. 

To bridge from online key compromise to PEP 480. I suggest to rephrase the remainder of this paragraph to something like:

> The maximum security model shows how TUF mitigates online key compromises by introducing additional roles for end-to-signing. Details about how to generate developer keys and singing upload distributions are provided in PEP 480 [26]_.
